Welcome to another edition of J.W. Broadcasting. Have you ever felt discouraged
due to circumstances beyond your control? We'll discuss how we can still have
joy despite our limitations and we'll see examples both biblical and modern
day that will encourage us to keep giving Jehovah our best. Jonah faced
several reasons to become discouraged and give up. How did Jehovah help him
carry on with courage and faith? And what lessons from his experience can we
apply to problems we face today? Can we change our personality for the better?
We can with Jehovah's spirit and diligent effort. This brother describes how
far his personality and lifestyle took him away from Jehovah. He explains how
he regained a clean conscience and freeness of speech. Jehovah can turn
tragic events caused by man into open doors of activity for his loyal witnesses.
In this report from Greece we'll learn how our brothers are bringing
spiritual comfort to refugees. You're watching the June 2017 edition of J.W. Broadcasting.
There are many exciting things happening in Jehovah's organization. On month
after month we read articles, watch videos and hear personal experiences
about our brothers and sisters who are doing more for Jehovah. They are serving
with Anita's greater or reaching out for the school for Kingdom of Angelizers.
They are working on construction, renovation, maintenance of Kingdom Halls or
other Theocratic projects. Note out many of you watching this program are
excitedly looking forward to expanding your ministry in one of these areas. We
encourage you to do so. You can be assured that you will receive much fulfillment and
many blessings from Jehovah. On the other hand, there are others who are
watching this program who may feel discouraged because their circumstances may
seem to limit their being involved as they would like. What are some of these
circumstances? These may include our age, our health, our economic situation, or
physical limitations. For some of us, perhaps our upbringing, or past errors we
have made in our life, may cause us to feel that we are limited as to what we
can do for Jehovah. As we know well, focusing on our limitations can affect our
joy, causing discouragement. What can we do? There are many examples in the
scriptures of men and women who had circumstances beyond their control that
seemed to limit how much they could do for Jehovah. Others had to deal with the
effects of their upbringing and family life, or with serious errors they may.
Did they allow themselves to be limited by their circumstances or their past?
How did Jehovah feel about them? How does Jehovah feel about us? That is what we
are going to discuss in this month's broadcast, which has the theme, are you
defined by your circumstances? Let's start by looking at some who could have
let their circumstances limit them. Consider first the example of Joseph in the
book of Genesis. Now Joseph faced injustice at its worst. In his situation was
especially hurtful since it was initially brought on by those who should have
been closest to him, his family. As a slave in Egypt and later as a prisoner,
Joseph was indeed limited in what he could do. How might Joseph have reacted?
Well, Joseph could have become so preoccupied with what he could not do that he
lost sight of what he could do. Did Joseph let his circumstances paralyze his
life? No. He chose to make the best of his situation. In fact, note what
Joseph did while serving as a slave in Potiphar's house if we turn together to
Genesis chapter 39 and verse 4. Joseph kept finding favor in his eyes and he
became his personal attendant. So we appointed him over his house and he put him
in charge of all that was his. Joseph worked diligently within the limitations
of his circumstances. He took a similar approach while in prison. At Joseph
focused on what he could do despite suffering the effects of injustice. As a
second example, consider Hezekiah. Now, Hezekiah is one who might easily have
felt that he was defined by his upbringing. Look at the terrible example that was
set by his father, Ahaz, as recorded in 2 Kings, chapter 16. 2 Kings, chapter 16,
and notice what verse 3 says about Ahaz. Instead, he walked in the way of the
kings of Israel and he even made his own son pass through the fire following the
detestable practices of the nations that Jehovah had driven out from before the
Israelites. Hezekiah's father did detestable things in opposition to Jehovah but
Hezekiah showed that he was not the helpless victim of a poor parental
example. What did he do? Well, turn in your Bibles to 2 Kings chapter 18 and
notice verse 3 what it says about Hezekiah. He kept doing what was right in
Jehovah's eyes. Just as David his forefather had done. Verse 5 says of Hezekiah,
there was no one like him among all the kings of Judah. He became fully
involved in true worship. Verses 6 and 7 says that Hezekiah held fast to
Jehovah and Jehovah proved to be with him. How encouraging. Hezekiah's example
is for us. We can choose to be loyal to Jehovah and do much in our worship of
Jehovah even if we did not grow up in a family that served Jehovah fully. We
are not helpless victims of our environment. Hezekiah's example reassures us
that our past does not have to control our future. As a third example,
consider the Apostle Paul. He did not let his own past mistakes involving
religious prejudice and violence stop him from giving his all to Jehovah. How did
Paul feel about his past? Well, let's read together in 1 Corinthians chapter
15 and verse 9. For I am the least of the Apostles, and I am not worthy of
being called an Apostle because I persecuted the congregation of God. I am the
least of the Apostle. Later when writing to the Ephesians, as recorded Ephesians
chapter 3 and verse 8, he calls himself less than the least of all the holy
ones. Finally, at 1 Timothy chapter 1 and verse 15, he now calls himself the
foremost of all sinners. Yes, Paul's prior treatment of the congregation weighed
heavily upon him. Could Paul have reasoned that he was damaged? Could he have
reasoned that his past limited what he could do for Jehovah? He could have,
but Paul did not do that. He poured himself out for the congregation. Why Paul was
privileged to write more books and letters in the Christian Greek
scriptures than anyone else? He demonstrated an outstanding zeal for the
ministry. Paul did not let his conduct in the past dictate what he could do
for Jehovah. And there are many other examples as well. For example, are we in a
difficult economic situation? The account of 2 Corinthians chapter 8 tells us
about the Macedonians. Paul says that they were in deep poverty, yet they begged
to have a financial share in the relief work. Are we older in years? We may think
of Anna. The account in Luke chapter 2 verses 36 to 38 tells us as she was 84
years old and that her husband had died after just seven years of marriage. Yes,
she was never missing from the temple. She rendered sacred service day and
night. What lessons do we learn from these accounts? Our dear brothers and
sisters in Bible times were just like us. Many were in circumstances that they
would not have chosen, yet they did not let their circumstances or their past
to find them. They joyfully did what they could within the limits of their
situation. And these are just a few examples. There are many others in the Bible.
Why not make it a personal study project to research faithful ones who are in
circumstances similar to yours? How did they stay involved in Jehovah's work? We
are sure that you will be greatly encouraged. In fact, let's look at an example
of how you might do this with a familiar Bible character. In this
dramatization, a brother and two sisters used their personal study time to learn
about Jonah. Sometimes, as we know, Jonah was discouraged by events beyond his
control. At other times, it was because of his own failings. Does Jonah's
experience relate to what they are feeling? And how do the lessons Jonah learn
help them to not remain trapped in their circumstances?
But John, they're still plenty you can do in the congregation. Sure, that
sounds good, but I'm no longer a ministerial servant. Why did I let my zeal
for the ministry call off? I know what the brothers must think of me now. Hello?
Oh, good morning. My name's Jane. How are you? Not bad, thanks. I know you may not be
interested, but I have this track that I'd like to... You may not be interested. Where did that come from?
Not my best presentation, but it didn't seem like she wanted to talk more
anyway. Well, what does that mean? It may be manageable, but long-term, given
your other conditions, you're looking at positive.
Magical? Long-term? Oh, Jehovah, how can I do this by myself? Of course, Jehovah values you.
Try to think of someone in the Bible who may have felt like you do. Like Jonah.
Jonah felt like I do. What comes to your mind when you think of Jonah? Do you think of him as a
disobedient prophet? Reluctant to obey Jehovah's command, Jonah ordered a ship that carried him farther
and farther away from his assignment. The Jonah's recent actions disqualify him from ever again
serving God in an official capacity. He sure could have thought so. I know I do. No,
Jehovah mercifully and lovingly renewed the prophet's commission. So if Jehovah didn't see Jonah
as a total failure, then what must he think of me? 1 Samuel 16 verse 7. For the way man sees
is not the way God sees. Jonah did not see Nineveh as Jehovah did, with all they were doing,
how could he view them any differently? But the account says, when God saw they had turned back
from their evil ways, he reconsidered the calamity and he did not bring it. Despite the people's
badness, Jehovah cared about them. He values human life and the potential that each individual has
for repenting and learning to do what is right. Well of course that's true. Why didn't Jonah see that?
But am I seeing people the way Jehovah does? Am I assuming they won't listen and then not giving my
best? How can I know how a personal respond? Jonah learned to be merciful.
Will we? Matthew 5 verse 7 says, happy are the merciful. Since they will be shown mercy,
then Jonah prayed to Jehovah his God from the belly of the fish and he said,
out of my distress, I call that to Jehovah and he answered me, out of the depths of the grave,
I cried for help. You heard my voice. God heard Jonah and delivered him.
But I can't expect a miracle. Then my prayer came into you, into your holy temple.
My prayer came into you. Jonah didn't know if Jehovah would rescue him,
but he prayed in faith that Jehovah cared. But as for me, with the voice of thanksgiving,
I will sacrifice to you. What I have vowed, I will pay. Salvation is from Jehovah.
As long as I still can, I'll keep sacrificing to God. Salvation is from Jehovah.
Like those in our video, do you sometimes feel as Jonah did?
Can you apply the lessons from Jonah's account to better see God's mercy in your life?
A personal failing discouraged our brother. But like Jonah, he realized,
Jehovah still valued him. Our young sister reinvigorated her ministry
after meditating on the way Jehovah mercifully viewed the ininivites.
And our sister was determined to imitate Jonah's faith that God hears our prayers about circumstances
beyond our control. Sometimes, however, our circumstances are only perceived barriers to doing
more for Jehovah. For example, some may feel limited by economic concerns if they reach out for
special privileges. In the Netherlands, many brothers and sisters assisted with the
construction of the Swifterbont assembly hall. Some had to make adjustments to be able to work on
this project. Listen, however, to their comments on the blessings they received and what their
goals are, now that the project is completed. In the Netherlands, there was a need for a new
suitable assembly hall, which could accommodate almost all of the 300 congregations of Jehovah's
witnesses. Additional building ground was acquired next to the existing hall, so that a second
completely new hall could be constructed. More than 200 volunteers worked on this project.
What challenges did they face? And what blessings did they receive?
We had to sell our house and close our business. It's a step in the unknown.
I had to quit my job. It was exciting to step out of my comfort zone and rely completely on
Jehovah. Everything is structured organized. That is why things run smoothly. That doesn't come
naturally to me. We were invited to come and work in the kitchen. I love to cook at home.
I'm really fond of it. What was my assignment? Doing the dishes.
Working on yourself, your Christian personality, and cooperating with your brothers and sisters,
that has everlasting value. This was a wonderful training for the future when we will be building
together in paradise. They realize that everyone sacrifices something and becomes happy. No one regrets
that decision. Jehovah takes into account your personal makeup that he is patient with us.
I've really learned how to work together in a theoretical arrangement and still have fun.
You can work on yourself all day long and therefore be able to improve.
I really learned to study more to read the Bible more often.
Because we work together so closely, you get to know each other very well,
and I really started to love and appreciate people. We really came to appreciate that every
brother and sister has this beautiful inner person. Visitors or contractors were always very
surprised that there were so many women working at the construction site.
It's great working with sisters. I have construction background and communication with men can be
really upfront. That doesn't work with sisters. You just have to become, talk, and listen.
I had to work on a lift platform, but I was kind of a problem because I'm afraid of heights.
The brothers were so kind to seal the sides up completely so that I could not look down.
It was fun working together on that lift platform. We called it our little flat.
The atmosphere was amazing and we all had a great time.
Now we work in the kitchen at the Sviftuvanskul facility.
A real privilege. We have been trained to cook during construction,
but if needed, I'll even do the dishes as well.
I'll never work five days again. Now I work three days and since you live first,
I started by an eerie. That's just great.
He was offered a job. He could even choose between two jobs.
Now he works three days a week, which always seemed impossible.
Eventually, we were in Sviftuvanskul for one month only.
Then we went to Mozambique for three months.
Then for five months to Sviftuvanskul again.
Then three months out there for care.
And the visit for us and the battle called and assigned us to Kongo Kinshasa.
All the volunteers who helped to make a success of this project, well, they had to give up a lot.
As a result, we can enjoy this beautiful hall.
It's amazing to be here. It's great to be encouraged and to be strengthened for the ministry.
If you think about it, every day we have around 700 new brothers and sisters.
That means every three days we can fill a hall like this with new brothers and sisters.
These kind of halls are really needed worldwide in order to provide education to all those
additional brothers and sisters.
It's so face strengthening to be here.
Words cannot express it. I feel so united, so warm, peaceful.
It's so wonderful to be able to serve Jehovah together.
Did you notice a comment thread in the volunteers' comments?
Any economic concerns they may have had just faded in the background, didn't they?
They reached out to help, and in turn, Jehovah helped them.
In fact, the assembly hall project was finished at a lower cost and a year earlier than originally plan.
And did you note that after the project, some who previously felt they couldn't pioneer,
reduced their secular work days, and are now doing what they thought was out of reach?
It brings us joy to see so many making adjustments and reaching out to do more
for the organization. And in turn, they experienced something they'll never forget.
Now, we've considered examples of those who did not let their circumstances hinder them
from giving the role to Jehovah. But another question is, how does Jehovah view his faithful
servants despite their limitations? I've often thought about the example of John the Baptizer.
As we know, he was arrested shortly after Jesus started his ministry.
John could have felt that he was no longer of use to Jehovah or the work.
Yet, as recorded at Matthew 11 verse 11, Jesus said about John,
among those born of women, there has not been raised up anyone greater than John the Baptist.
Jehovah's and Jesus' view of John was not based on the man's circumstances of being in prison.
Their view of John was based on who he was on the inside and on his relationship with Jehovah.
Jehovah did not focus on the limitations. In Jehovah's eyes, John was great.
He was still a faithful servant doing the best that he could, and that was all that really matter.
Another example that may come to your mind is that of King David. As we know, King David committed
serious sins. Yet David repented for his sins, and there is no record that he repeated them.
How did Jehovah view him? Did Jehovah see David as damaged as a man who would always be limited
in serving him? Notice Jehovah's words directed to King Jeroboan at 1 Kings chapter 14 and verse 8.
But you have not become like my servant, David, who kept my commandments and who walked after me
with all his heart, doing only what was right in my eyes. Jehovah viewed David as a special servant.
He says, he kept my commandments. He did what was right in my eyes. That's what Jehovah remembered.
How encouraging that is for us. If we have repented of our past mistakes and set matters
straight to the best of our circumstances, we too can be assured that Jehovah loves us dearly.
He appreciates whatever we can do in our worship of him.
So what's the point? Well, our past or our present circumstances do not define our value before
Jehovah. Our father loves us for who we are and he values our efforts as we do the best that we
can to serve him. Why do you think it is important that we strive to see ourselves as Jehovah does?
Because we can weaken, discourage or limit ourselves if we see ourselves only in the framework
of our circumstances. May we work hard not to do that. What does Jehovah see when he looks at his
faithful servants today? Well, turn please to 1 Samuel chapter 16 and verse 7. And the setting
is Samuel was about to go to anoint the next king of Israel and he goes to the house of Jesse and
Jesse lines up all of his sons except David who was still out in the field and Samuel walks in and
he sees a lie out. And based on what he sees, Samuel concludes that this surely must be the next
king of Israel. Yet note what Jehovah saw. Please read with me. First Samuel chapter 16 and verse 7.
But Jehovah said to Samuel, do not pay attention to his appearance and how tall he is
where I have rejected him. For the way man sees is not the way God sees because mere man sees what
appears to the eyes, but Jehovah sees into the heart. That's the way Jehovah sees. He does not
look at our outward appearance and our abilities. He sees into our heart. He sees what we would be
doing if all the limitations were lifted off of us. Why just the fact that we keep going, that we
keep putting one foot in front of another, endears us to Jehovah? We understand the truth of that
statement and we all may agree that this is how Jehovah views his people. However, we may have a hard
time convincing ourselves if this really applies to me. Have you ever wondered does Jehovah really see
me? Does he see what's in my heart and value my desire to do more for him? The answer is yes. In
fact, Jehovah has already seen what is in your heart. Think about this. Why are you watching this
program? But why do you care about spiritual things? Why are you perhaps the only one in your
family who is a dedicated baptized servant of Jehovah? Or why are you perhaps the only one in your
place of employment or the only one near where you live who's serving Jehovah? Is it because you're
so much more studious or smarter than everyone else? No. Agai chapter 2 and verse 7 tells us that
Jehovah will shake all the nations and the precious things of the nations will come in.
John chapter 6 verse 44 says that no man can come to Jesus unless the Father draws him.
Jeremiah chapter 31 verse 3. Jehovah says, I have loved you
with an everlasting love. That is why I have drawn you. So again, why are you serving Jehovah?
Because Jehovah loves you. Jehovah drew you as he was shaking the nations. He looked down into your
heart and he saw something very precious and he drew you to him. He says, I want to draw this
person to my son. I want to draw this person to me. I love this person. Jehovah drew you,
not because you had perfect circumstances, but because of your heart and because he loves you.
He greatly appreciates that his servants give their best to him. But how do we know that Jehovah
really sees each one of us no matter where we are? Consider an example. Thousands of refugees
who face severe hardships in their home countries have sought shelter in parts of Europe.
Watch how Jehovah has lovingly assured them that they're not alone by satisfying their spiritual
thirst. Welcome to Greece. We really feel that Jehovah is blessing us by opening a large door
of opportunities to preach the good news to the many refugees who are straining into the country.
For this reason, the brothers immediately informed us of the situation and we directed the
bodies of elders to concentrate on the harbours, especially in chaos. The brothers were willing
to work in shifts 24 hours a day. The refugee shelters in our area have only families with
children and are located near a military airport. Whenever military planes flew overhead and the
children would see and hear them, they would immediately run and try to hide because they were afraid.
They sought protection from the tragic conditions they had experienced during warfare.
This impressed upon us how greatly they needed the comforting message of the good news,
so we felt the urge to approach them.
Therefore, the service department arranged for four language classes to be held for the brothers.
We try to speak to people in a language quite different from our own. At times we might think,
will these people understand us? Will we be able to reach their heart with these basic truths?
Something that helped me not to hesitate to approach these people despite the language barrier
is what our teachers told us in the language class. Go and talk to them, show them things from
the Bible. Even if you don't say things perfectly, they will understand you.
After we received permission from the branch office, we also printed thousands of
tracks since we did not have enough. This whole effort created an atmosphere of enthusiasm.
I am deeply moved when I see how lovingly Jehovah cares for these people,
who have never had the opportunity to hear the Kingdom message that gives them a future and a hope.
It was exciting for them to hear that we have a Bible-based video in their language.
We told them that the problems, calamities, and the terrible war they had experienced
were not punishment from God, but the result of the influence Satan that devil exercises
over this system of things. And this provided a good answer to their question.
On a return visit, after two days, a refugee girl said something very touching.
Now I understand why we have to go through all this. It's very difficult, but it's not God's fault.
On another occasion, Gardiniya, a refugee woman who showed interest told us,
since meeting you, I have a purpose in life. I have a reason to live,
until now I was just waiting to die. A refugee approached the Arabic witnessing cart and we
read Revelation 21 and 4 to him. He said, please, could you read that to me once again?
So we read it a second time. He replied, may I have a Bible of my own?
So we gave him a Bible. Then he said, would you please show me the sentence you read in my Bible?
So we marked the verse for him. And on the way back to our home at about 11 o'clock at night,
on the same road at a well-lit point, we saw that same refugee sitting on the sidewalk reading the Bible.
About two and a half years ago, I met Mustafa. He attended the meetings and made speedy progress.
Mustafa was baptized a few months before the refugees started pouring in. We do not believe
that this was a coincidence. He would say, I want to speak about Jehovah, but I can't do that
in the Greek language. When I can speak to people who are refugees, just as I am a refugee,
in my own language, this is a great opportunity for me. And when I see that they listen to the truth
and are loving it, it makes my heart beat faster. It touches my heart. By expanding my ministry,
I'm sharing in a form of service that could even be described as missionary work,
since I'm helping people hear about Jehovah for the very first time. I'm living what I have
only read about in experiences. Many were, perhaps, for the first time, discovering new skills in
themselves, indicating how Jehovah, through his spirit, can enable certain ones to cultivate
qualities they didn't realize they had to search an extent. We are so grateful to Jehovah
for opening a door leading to such wonderful activity. It gives us great joy and we praise
him daily for this. At the time, this report was prepared over 100 Bible studies have been started.
One refugee told the brothers, you are the best thing that has happened to us here in Greece.
We thank Jehovah for meeting you. Another said, we do not need material things. We need hope
and you are giving this to us through the Bible. In our program, we have been discussing how
Jehovah values each one of us, no matter what our circumstances are. In some parts of the world,
our brothers and sisters are in deep poverty and lack even the basic needs for life.
But this does not diminish Jehovah's feelings for them. He loves them dearly.
In this next report, see what's been done to care for faithful brothers and sisters
in the democratic republic of Congo.
My name is Masca Mahamba. I love the preaching work. However, my various illnesses prevent me from
giving my all in the ministry. My first wife died and we had six children.
I was alone with the six children and then I married Beatrice, who has five children.
Since we are living in the last days of this system, it is not easy.
I like the example of Jesus who is passionate about preaching the message that he shared.
But at the same time, he took into account the suffering of the people of his time.
He would take time to show kindness, to encourage and to heal.
The branch sees where there is a need and then organizes a humanitarian mission.
I believe I can use my medical skills to help our brothers.
It is love. Not just inviting, but in action.
It's a real joy to help these brothers who need us in remote locations, far from town.
It is always a pleasure.
Both the two are the same. Both the drums are completely perforated.
Well, we are here in the village of Wali Khaled, in the middle of the forest.
On the main road, well, the only road in the village, it serves as our own.
I can't bear to see anyone suffer. So I use all my skills to try to find a solution.
What moves me to help the brothers is what Jesus said,
that there is more happiness in giving than in receiving.
A long day, really, very tiring.
But at the same time, there was an encouraging case.
Brother Minya Karaguay, 68 years old, 10 years in regular per-near service,
and he has 15 Bible studies.
This brother came from the territory on the motorcycle.
He took him two and a half hours on a very rough road,
instead of an hour and a half, because he has a paralyzed leg.
And he was able to go back to his field service, well, with some medication.
So it was really encouraging to see him getting on the motorcycle with a smile on his face.
These are mosquito nets for those in need, and there's a big need here.
So we give them to each family.
You know, to protect your baby, one of the best things is for him to sleep under a mosquito net.
Jehovah has done well, because he has gone through you to provide us with care.
We are very grateful. We thank the many brothers who have volunteered to service.
I thank Jehovah, because without him, our identifying mark of unity wouldn't exist.
You have helped me. I had this problem for two years.
Now I'm so happy. I will be able to hear at the meetings again. Thank you.
The brothers are aware that they must thank Jehovah,
and we ourselves are aware that all of this is possible.
Thanks to Jehovah's Holy Spirit and his organization.
How heartwarming. Those dear ones are not defined by their circumstances.
They have been serving Jehovah whole soul despite their challenges.
And they're determined to use the relief assistance to continue worshipping him.
Earlier, we discussed the examples of King David and the Apostle Paul and the mistakes they made.
Perhaps for us, our past mistakes are keeping us from moving forward.
That was a challenge for Jim Lloyd. He was raised in the truth, but did not progress to baptism.
By his teen years, he was getting into trouble, as he describes it, in his heart,
he had left Jehovah. His later involvement with gangs and violence put him in a place he never
expected to be. But you will be greatly encouraged to see where he is now.
Things that have happened to you can't change, but your personality you can,
we can't change our personality with Jehovah's help. By the time I was 25, I was
associating with notorious criminals. I guess I was criminal too. This took a wrong turn and
kept going. I found myself a fugitive on the run. I was sentenced to many years in prison.
In 25, I felt like you might as well have been a life sentence.
The isolation locked down, very lonely place, and I thought, how did I get here?
I remember a happier time in my life. My mom would take us to meetings.
You know, I was in the Democratic Ministry School. All the friends were so loving.
My mom sent me subscriptions to the watchtower in Wake. I had a box under my bunk.
And I tossed them in there, never opened them, and I must have had a year's worth.
You know, I never told her, stop sending a mom. I'm not reading them. I found out through my mom
that my dad had died. I felt that I broke his heart. I pulled out the box from under my bunk.
Right on top was a book. The truth that leads to eternal life.
And at that moment, I knew Jehovah hadn't forgotten me. I remembered that book.
I remembered that book when I was a boy. I placed that book out in service.
I opened it up, and of course, that the theme scripture for that publication was Revelation 21,
3 and 4. Ten of God is with mankind. I read it that night. The whole night, I read the whole book.
Of course, that little bell went off. I couldn't deny that this was the truth.
So what was I going to do about it? Shortly after that, I got transferred.
So I called my mom and told her, it was funny. She asked, do you think there's any Jehovah's Witnesses
that go up there? I told her, I don't think so. It's way up in the mountains. I don't think they go
there. It's a little fire camp. I wasn't a spiritual person yet. All the magazines and books
went back into the box and back under my bunk. It only been there five minutes and a guard comes in
and said, are you a Jehovah's Witness? I couldn't believe it. And I told my study,
I've been studying with Jehovah's Witnesses and he said, oh, good, follow me. And I followed him and
he took me and introduced me to a brother who had been coming up there regularly to study the
Bible with inmates there. And I realized at that moment that once again, Jehovah had not forgotten
me. A brother faithfully came up there for the next two years every Friday night.
He thought that if you could idea to have a Theocratic Mystery School, so he got it approved.
He would do the number one talk and the other brother that would come with him to do the highlights
and then the three of us inmates would do the other parts. I was given a talk every week.
He started making tape recordings of the meetings. I listened to him over and over until the next week.
I knew that if I was going to return to Jehovah, I had to make some adjustments.
Which Jehovah's help. I leaned on him more, relied on his strength more. It was then that I really felt
that I could do this. The beard became a goatee and then it just became a mustache.
No drugs, no alcohol, no smoking. I cleaned my language. Then I finally got released.
I got a job as an electrician and was able to get my own place and
started going to meetings. I was listening to the watchtower and different ones were commenting,
oh that's his wife. One of the brothers that came up to visit me. I kept looking to see so I could
finally put a face to the voices that I'd been listening to. I let Jehovah mold me and to
something good. So how could this scripture be here?
Many blessings have since dedicated my life to Jehovah. I've been an elder for 10 years now.
One of my sons came into the truth. I met my wonderful wife. She's helped me to grow spiritually
and to love Jehovah even more. One thing I kept praying for and he's blessed me with
is to forgive myself, to have a clean conscience and bring us to speech. And he's done that.
Jim shares the same joy as so many others who return to Jehovah.
The feelings common in such real life experiences are what we'll see depicted in our music video.
It's called, I can get back up. It is especially touching with those of us who have stumbled
but need encouragement to move ahead with Jehovah's help.
What a beautiful reminder that if we stumble, we can get back up.
Having seen the examples throughout the program, can you confidently answer the question of our theme?
Are you defined by your circumstances? What do you think?
Remember, not the way man sees is the way God sees. Jehovah sees what the heart is.
May we work hard to see ourselves as Jehovah does and be determined to never give up.
May we never forget that it is the privilege of bearing Jehovah's name,
having a relationship with him and our love for Jehovah that defines us.
Jehovah is happy if we give the best that we can.
So may we do our part by not limiting ourselves due to our circumstances,
but always look for ways to give our best to Jehovah.
You beautiful older ones. Even those with severe health problems can do much to help in the
great work that's taking place today. Now you may wonder, what can you do?
You can pray for your brothers and sisters. We need your prayers.
Pray for the governing body. Pray for those who are taking the lead.
Pray for the elders in your congregations. Pray for those who are going through difficult times.
Do such prayers help the work of the organization?
Absolutely. James chapter five in verse 16 tells us that a righteous person's
supplication has a powerful effect. No matter who we are and whatever our situation in life,
may we find joy in giving what we can or Jehovah and may each one of us rejoice at the
privilege we have of being part of what Jehovah is accomplishing in these last days.
Of course, we share that privilege with our worldwide brotherhood, a part of which we enjoy
seeing each month. To conclude this program, we visit with our brothers and sisters in Togo.
A located in Western Africa, Togo enjoys a very pleasant climate year-round.
The southern coast contains extensive lagoons with sandy beaches, while farther north are
rolling forested hills and yellow tingees of Savannah land. Togo may be one of the smaller
countries in Africa, yet it is sending up a great shout of praise to Jehovah.
In the town of Palame, there are 577 of our brothers and sisters, 56 of whom are pioneers.
Palame is located on a scenic woodman plateau.
Steep hillsides can sometimes make service a challenge, but not a deterrent.
Our faithful brothers and sisters not only meet this challenge,
but are very zealous in carrying out their ministry. They diligently search out all persons,
no matter where they are, and many honest-hearted ones are listening to the good news from God's
worm. The first congregation in Palame was formed in 1961.
Now there are seven in the small town alone. The Kingdom Halls are very well cared for by the
brothers. This is the newest Kingdom Hall. Palame Nogo. It was just dedicated in December 2016.
And here is their assembly hall, constructed in 2008. All 577
send you their love and greetings, and we in turn send them our love and pray for Jehovah's
strength and blessing to be upon each and every one of them. From the World Headquarters of
Jehovah's Witnesses, this is J.W. Broadcasting.